---
title: The Last Of Us
slug: the-last-of-us
coverImage: https://media.rawg.io/media/games/a5a/a5a7fb8d9cb8063a8b42ee002b410db6.jpg
releaseDate: 2013-06-14T00:00:00.000Z
rating: 4.54
metacritic: 95
website: http://www.thelastofus.playstation.com/
platforms:
  - PlayStation 3
  - PlayStation 4
genres:
  - Action
  - Adventure
isFavorite: true
status: backlog
developers: Naughty Dog
publishers: Sony Computer Entertainment
esrbRating: Mature
playtime: 15
screenshots:

tags: []
---

The population of the Earth almost disappeared as a result of a pandemic caused by a mutated fungus. The disease causes irreversible changes in the human body, a person loses his mind and behaves aggressively, like a zombie. Civilization no longer exists, few survivors live in isolation under the protection of the military.
Cities outside the zones are dangerous ruins inhabited by infected people and people who have almost lost humanity.
Heroes, the smuggler Joel and teenage girl Ellie, are trying to cross the continent, colliding in depopulated cities with all the set of dangers. The game requires hidden actions, the combat capability and the number of ammunition of the heroes are small, and it is best for them to avoid fighting. For most of the game, the player controls Joel, while Ellie and Joel's other companions are controlled by artificial intelligence.
The levels of the game are very extensive, at each level the task is the same - to reach a certain point alive.

Characters have something like a shotgun pistol, bow and arrow, as well as improvised items - pipes, sticks, baseball bats.
From time to time, it is necessary to solve the problem of perceptiveness.
Artificial intelligence, which controls opponents, can behave differently depending on the situation.

## Informações Adicionais

**Desenvolvedores:** Naughty Dog
**Publishers:** Sony Computer Entertainment
**Classificação:** Mature
**Tempo médio de jogo:** 15 horas

---

*Importado automaticamente da RAWG API*
*Última atualização: 14/12/2025*
